hi I'm YouTube's Donal skien and I hear
you're looking for a great breakfast
recipe here's a doozy Eggs Benedict is
an absolute classic brunch recipe and it
is comprised of toasted English muffins
beautiful sharp and buttery hollandaise
sauce and creamy poached eggs a little
bit of savory ham as well it is simple
to make but you need to take time and
concentrate I have two eggs in a large
heatproof bowl give them a good whisk up
and we're gonna stick these over a pan
of simmering water
so as this simmers away and starts to
heat up we're gonna add one or two knobs
of butter and slowly but surely this is
gonna melt into our sauce right we're
gonna add more butter in and you kind of
have to keep doing it and keep going and
you'll notice that the sauce starts to
thicken up under the piece or over the
heat and it's just a case of adding more
and more butter until you have a nice
voluptuous sauce so I'm adding my final
little bit of butter in here and once
that's melted down we have a fantastic
hollandaise sauce that just needs a kick
of flavor from some lemon juice and some
sea salt I'm going to take it off the
heat at this point give this a last
quisque through and you can see how
beautiful and yellow that hollandaise
sauce is it just needs to be hit with a
tiny touch of lemon juice give that
lemon a little bit of a roll on the
board and a quick squeeze it only needs
about a teaspoon of lemon juice and if
you're doing this squeezing it straight
in do do it through your hands so you
get any of those pips left okay should
do me little hit of some sea salt in
here will make all the difference in
terms of flavor you could add a bit of
black pepper in there but I don't think
purists would be too happy give it a
little whisk through it should maintain
that thickness even when you add the
lemon juice and that my friends is a
very delicious and simple hollandaise
sauce
set this aside we now need to talk about
our poaching liquid for our eggs I have
this come to a rolling simmer and you
don't want it to be a really hard boil
you want it to be a nice steady simmer
keep it on a low temperature we're
adding a
tablespoon of white wine vinegar now the
theory is that a tablespoon of white
wine vinegar and the pinch of salt I'm
going to add now will make all the
difference to bring in your poached eggs
together the wet that I use is slightly
different because normally everyone goes
in there and swirls it around
I'm just swirling it very gently to
dissolve the salt but I don't actually
swirl my water I just pop my egg in very
gently because it is poached eggs or
something that not everyone gets right
so this is my little trick and it's the
way I always make my poached eggs it's
always a very simple one and even if you
never postin egg before this method I
hope I can guarantee will work for you
so in a little cup bring your cup right
to the edge of the water and just drop
it on in okay my egg has had its time
and there is a tendency when they come
out of the water that they look a little
bit miserable so if you have these
little extra bits that are our aim
besides just use a porter knife and chop
it off so you have a nice edge to your
lovely folks a fantastic
[Music]
got my poached eggs got my hollandaise
and now it's time to assemble I have
some toasted English muffins and we're
going to just assemble these up with a
little bit of ham on the bottom here
I've got nice thinly sliced pieces of
ham and they really do add a lovely
savory kick so I always use ham but you
can do it with smoked salmon you can add
a little bit of cooked spinach in here
is quite nice as well so really this is
a recipe you can adapt to your own
liking but this is more of the classic
way of serving it so we've got a nice
little bit of ham and now it's time for
our fantastic poached eggs straight on
top with your poached eggs beautifully
poached so that you have that runny yolk
and nicely set egg white just lift very
gently on top and what brings together
this whole dish is that wonderful
hollandaise sauce so the last itlook
whisk through just so that it is nice
and ready I'm gonna lose my whisk take a
big spoon or a small small spoon in this
case and just spread that over the top
look at that fantastic flavors really
sharp hollandaise sauce and when you
dive through that egg yolk you are in
business the only thing this needs now
is a little fresh hit of some chives
over the top I'm just going to give them
a quick snip with the scissors I'm kind
of going a little bit creative here now
but I quite like that
just a nice little snip gives you all
that wonderful sort of onion flavor and
you can give it a final touch of some
black pepper and then that my friends is
a serious breakfast and a hat I'm gonna
give it that little cracked black pepper
the last thing to do now is slice right
through that so you get really nice yolk
pouring I'm going to get you to come in
and have a look
oh yes this is what your egg Benedict is
all about dripping egg yolk wonderful
hollandaise sauce and that savory ham
there just give me mmm
that has to be one of my absolute
favorite breakfasts that I now have all
over my hand it is so delicious it's an
absolute classic and it's a very easy
recipe to make this is a brunch that is
bound to impress your friend if you want
the recipe you can check it out in the
box below like this beautiful brunch and
of course subscribe to this channel for
lots more delicious recipes just like
this one leave me a comment in the box
below and I'll see you soon
goodbye
that's it now after you go